From Hanselman is.com. It's
Hansel minutes. Oh, weekly discussion
with web developer and technologists.
Scott Hanselman hosted by a
call Franklin. This is Laura
it's Ryan announcing show number
18 recorded Monday, May 22nd, 2006. Support
for Hanselman it's just provided
by Peter balloon.com. Doug, with
better controls finished with better
sites online at P E
T E R B L
U M. Dot com. Support
is also provided by.net developers
journal the world's leading.net developer
magazine online at www dot
dot com. In this
episode, Scott discusses some cool
organizational tools.  Hi, this
is Carl Franklin and you're listening
to Hansel minutes. I'm here
again with Scott Hanselman after
a week in hiatus. How
are you doing Scott? I
am. Well, how are you,
sir? How was your week?
Last week? I was catching
up on reading and I
was a cleaning up after
the baby Looking around for
links. I'm sure because we
have a ton of them
for the show. It's a
complicated topic that we've got
today. What is the topic
today? Scott Topic is life
hacks. This is hacking hacking
your life. There's an interesting
definition of what life hacking.
Is it a string stir
slash F a Y, but
basically a life hack are
really cool tips, techniques, things
you can do to your
life. That like as if
a programmer we're tweaking or
hacking, right, we as, as
programmers or computer oriented people,
not necessarily programmers, but creative
types that use the computer.
Think about our lives. Similarly
that we think about the
computer kind of ins and
outs. And if you tweak
this, you'll get better output.
And with this kind of
onslaught of information, all this
stuff that happens in RSS,
all the stuff that happens
in email voicemails, just the
glut of information that is
our lives and only 24
hours to manage it. All
people are turning more and
more to a different personal
systems of organization in order
to deal with all this.
And in the last couple
of two, three years, there's
become this term life hack
where someone can encapsulate a
here's, what works for me
type tip that they would
then put in an ad
or put in their blog
and someone would go and
say, Oh man, Carl's got
this great life hack. And
it really helped him become
more productive. Huh? So this
isn't necessarily software. This might
be a procedure, might be
a, a book or, or
something else. Right? Exactly. These
are, this could be any
number of things. There's a
whole website dedicated to them
at life. hacker.com shrinks stir
FAA life hacker.com is a
blog dedicated things you could
do to your life. That
has nothing to do with
software. And I think with
hardware, and it's important to
note that this isn't about
gadgets. This isn't about, Oh,
I got a new pocket
PC and it really changed
my life. This is about
modifying behavior. It's almost a
lifestyle. It's a kind of
a lifestyle of continuous improvement,
not in a spiritual sense,
but just in a, how
can I be more effective
in my life? And I,
you know, kind of started
like maybe Stephen Covey was
probably the first big, super
successful life hacker or maybe
Tony Robbins. You know, people
who have that sense of,
I'm always trying to improve,
always trying to make something
more of my life. All
right. So let's jump in.
What do you got for
us? We're not talking about
the Tony Robbins make more
money by buying real estate.
You know, this is more
of a small, small victories
here, right? What's that guy
who was up at two
in the morning, placing tiny
little ads in my one
bedroom apartment and newspapers all
over the country. You know,
this isn't that kind of
life hack. This is about
organization. One of them is
called 43 folders. 43 folders
is a technique from David.
Allen's getting things done. Book
that book is at, at
amazon@ashrinker.com slash FAJ. This is
the kind of the Bible
for the personal organizers. Now
this is the Covey book
for the 21st century. And
David Allen has this technique called
43 folders. You basically get
43 Manila folders. You take
12 of them and label
them with the months and
you take 31 and label
them with the days, just
one, two, three, four, all
the way up to 31.
And you organize them in
a storage folder, in a
circular buffer. We've got a
technical audience. So I can
use terms like that. I
use more complicated term and
I explained it to my
wife and you, the, the,
the, the numbers represent like,
say, this is the 15th.
You would take a, this
is the 15th at what
is actually today. What is,
this is the 22nd of
23rd of May, 20, 22nd of May. 22nd of May. Yeah.
Part of being a life
hacker doesn't involve knowing the
day. Of course I can
tell that that's not a
big part of my life.
Okay. So it's the 22nd of May.
So PDAs are for exactly.
So I would take my
folders labeled 23 to 30
days has September, April, June,
November. I would take my
23 to 31 those days.
I would put them in
front of may and then
as to be in front
of June, rather because June
is the next month. And
then on the other side
of June, I would put
numbers one through 22 and
then get it. So every
day you're moving a folder.
Exactly. So every day you
move a folder to the
back. And so you've always
got this window of 31
days, and then beyond those,
you've got all the other
months. So for example, I've
got a speaking tour. I
got to go on an
October. So I need to
remember to get on that.
So I stick all that
stuff in October. So as
I move these circular folders
through their daily machinations, I
am reminded of things. I
can put something as far
as 12 months in the
future. And I won't, I
won't forget it, Scott, what's
the I'm immediately thinking, you
know, I do this with
my PDA. What's the benefit?
Well, The benefit is that
a lot of people feel
that there's a certain visceral
satisfaction or a sense of
being more rooted when they
do what I call sinking
to paper. Sometimes I just
can't look at that three
by five PDA screen and
really get the big picture,
You know? And there's other,
there's the other thing too,
where sometimes you may have
set am instead of PM.
You might not have checked
off an alarm for the
right day. You know, there
are times when your technology
will fail. Yeah. Yeah. And
there's also physical things that
you can't put in a
PDA. Someone sends you actual
tickets or a credit card
that needs to be chopped
up or any number of
tickets to a play. There's
all these physical aspects of
things. Now, certainly you can
mirror these, these physical folders
in a, in a virtual
folder, but everything that I'm
describing is primarily physical, but
has a computerized component that
you could apply to it.
I call it sinking to
paper. When I get overwhelmed
at the end of the
week, I put everything on
paper so I can know
what's going on. My computer
could blow up tomorrow, but
I still have a pretty
good handle of what's in
my life. 43 folders.com has
also got a podcast, shrinker.com/fac,
and a that's a new
thing that they're doing. And
it's all about life hacking
and applying techniques to, to
make life a little easier.
All of a sudden our
listenership drops by 50% Rushes
to 44 weeks.com/podcasts. Another interesting
life hack that came up
is a funny thing that
you would probably not like
that's called the hipster. PDA.
This is basically a whole
pile of three by five
cards with a rubber band
around them. So you've got
a shiny new windows, mobile
device, but for those that
don't want it, maybe they're
Luddites. Maybe they just think
it's weird. They want a
sh a hipster PDA. You
can go to a, do
it yourself. planner.com. It's trickster.com/f
a E. And you can
download PDFs of these three
by five cards. They include
calendars, grocery lists. It's basically
a design your own PDA,
same size as a PDA
fits in your back pocket.
And you can refresh the
pages, throw them away, do
whatever you want. So you're
laughing, but this helps people,
man, there's official template By
the way, Miguel, Miguel Castro
is here right outside the
window, and he's laughing his
ass off. Listening to this.
I'll have to get him
one for his birthday. You
should, you should make them.
You can download the official
templates at  dot com
slash FAF. Oh, there's a
few people I want to
give these to actually Hipster.
PDA is my friend. I'm
telling you, I also, we
talked about pocket mod. Remember
on a recent show, pocket
mod.com, pocket modest, a little
tiny foldable PDA from a
single piece of paper. I'm
thinking of making a pocket
modge with all of the
tech ed talks that I
want to go see, you
know, I think it's great
that people have these little
devices that lasts for two
or three hours and on
batteries. I used to have
one, but there's something to
be said for paper. And
I totally agree. You know,
You can't, I can't say
that loudly enough. I totally
agree. You could turn up
the gain here on the,
on the podcast. Yep. I
talked about some of my
personal systems of organization@shrinksor.com slash
F a H. How many,
how many emails do you
have in your inbox? In
my inbox at any one
time, I've actually let it
get up to 7,000 before
I've decided to flip, you
know, to highlight them all
and push the delete button.
And of course they go
to the deleted folder. Anyway.
I don't know why I
just don't delete them anyway,
Everything older than a week
and toss it. I've done
that before. Yeah. Do you
ever worry that there's some
crucial, you know, come pick
me up. It doesn't make
any sense that I hoard
them because anything that is
important goes into a calendar
entry or goes into, you
know, notes or, or an
alarm or something else. So
I just get lazy about
deleting him Paper or notebook
in your pocket. I don't
anymore. I used to, I
do everything on my PDA.
Now my PDA phone, my
Samsung, and it's always with
you always with, And that's,
that's really one of the
keys with these life hacks
is that this is about
developing positive habits. A life
hack is really just a
fancy, you know, a silly
blogging way of saying, take
a habit and make it
a good one. You know,
if you're going to develop
some habit, at least make
it a good habit. I
think keeping a, an alternate
brain with you at all
times, whether it be your
PDA or a hipster PDA,
or a piece of paper
is as a positive thing,
all the best comedians, all
the best presenters have a
piece of paper in their
pocket and a pen. And
they write down when their
great ideas happen. And I've
recently started doing that. Actually,
it's been actually a couple
of years now, but recently
in, in the, in my
life, like I wish I
would have figured it out
when I was 15. And
I, I also carry out
what's called a molar. Skeena
these are these little, I
call them the iPod of,
of a personal notebooks. You
can get these at
dot com slash F a
I, these are the little
notebooks that like Hemingway used
to carry around with him.
And I got turned on
to this by Omar Shaheen
who wrote a really cool
article about how the, the
Moschino rocked his world. It's
just a very nice tight,
well bound hardback book that
you can keep in your
pocket. And then you carry
the, the Fisher space pen.
Remember the space pen, right.
Was developed with all this
money in order to write
upside down, what are the
Russians do when they went
to space? They used the
pencil, Right? So if you
ever find yourself floating in
space and you have an
idea, you know, you can
whip out the book and
there you go. That was
fabulous. Thank you. So a
lot of these life facts
that you'll find out on
the net are I'm using
this molar. Skeena, they'll take,
they'll say, well, Oh, I
use mine this way. And
I put, you know, colored
tabs on it. And each
color means this. Or I
paste in posted notes. An
interesting life hack, a guy
used with a PostIt notes
was post-its as a task
focus tool. I personally have
a lot of trouble. When
I sit down, I've got
a lot of things to
focus on. I can't stick
with one. You know, I
was kind of the all
tab syndrome. You start all
tabbing around the next thing
you know, you're doing other
stuff. Yeah. He takes a,
this gentleman@shrinks.com slash FAO. He
takes a post it note
big one and in big
letters writes what he's working
on and sticks it to
his monitor. Huh? So he
sits there with his monitor
and a big note saying,
this is what you're supposed
to be working on. Is
this, Is he add Kenny,
remember from one minute to
the next, what he's supposed
to be doing? Or so
what are we talking about?
So What the, the general
idea here is that the
internet makes us have add,
right. You know, not the
formalized clinical definition, but it
is an enabler. I mean,
there's, there's even utilities you
can get that will not
allow you to run any
program except the one you're
supposed to be. Right. Hang
on a second. I'm getting
a call on my cell
phone right now. I'm sorry.
Okay. Nice reminder. I just
pushed. No, she's, I'm sorry.
This is supposed to be
a serious show and they'll
fluff. What am I doing?
Yeah, we're wasting time. We're
going to have to compress
that whole thing and double
speed at the chipmunks. So
just, that's just an example.
Here's where, where a guy
puts on his blog that
I use this to make
my life work a little
smoother. These aren't, these aren't
big changes, but it might
be as simple as you
know, I forget my keys
all the time. Right? Some
people just accept that they
forget their keys or from
a programmer type of a
point of view, you would
sit down and say, what
is it that causes me
to keep forgetting my keys?
I always forget my blood
sugar meter. So what I
started doing was I have
a stack on the kitchen
counter of the three, you
know, my Blackberry, my keys,
my blood sugar meter, every
single night, before I go
to bed, that's where they
are. Right. They never get
forgotten. Right? So hacking your
life is really, this is
the interesting part. It's about
willpower, right? Because in anything
that you do, whether it
be weight or diabetes or
programming, or staying on focus
or remembering to bring home
milk and bread, it's 95%,
do you have the will
to do this? Right? And
what life hacking is is
doing is it's giving someone
a physical crutch, you know,
in crutch, in quotes, being
a good thing where someone
can focus on something. Like
if you have an email
inbox of 7,000 items and
it bothers you, right, there
are half a dozen, two
dozen life hacks out there
on how you can manage
that from getting things done
is outlook. Addins, that'll help
you do that. Now, Scott,
there's a couple of things
you mentioned that I'm not
sure if we mentioned shrink
stirs for one is Omar.
Check-ins a thing on the
Mola. Skeena did we mention
the shrink stir on that?
Yeah. That's at shrink stir.com/fap.
And this is about how
this little, this little notebook
and pan changed how Omar
juggles is very complicated job
working for Microsoft. And the,
the other one is the
official templates for the DIY
planner. Yeah. We did mention
those at shrinker.com/faf FAF. Yeah.
And you can buy Moleskines
anywhere. You can go borders.
But the thing is to
go and just do a
Google search for life hack
and write down some things
in your life that maybe
aren't working out. And this
isn't like, Oh, I, you
know, I wish I was
hugged more as a child
type of thing. This isn't
that kind of hack. This
might be I procrastinate or
I have trouble stay on
focus at work, or I
am a writer. And I
can't, I can't find something
to write about. Yeah. And
I think you would agree
that people would much rather
be self motivated than motivated
by other people. You know,
the drill Sergeant comes to
mind or just the, the
nag, you know, the nag
roommate are the, you know,
the mother-in-law or the mother
or the father or whatever.
Nobody wants to be nagged.
So, you know, it's good
to develop these skills so
that you, you are your
own motivator. Yeah. And it
also comes down to defining
tasks. I think we all
have a file called to
do dot text on our,
on our desktop. Or we
use the tasks and outlook
and people will sometimes write
down very vague tasks. They
might write down, spend more
time with my spouse. That's
always in the other or
someday kind of file. And
that's not an action item.
Right. Okay. That's a vague
project. Well, you know, go
hiking next Saturday would be
a next action. A lot
of these life hacks are
focused on getting you to
think about the very next
thing that needs to be
done. You know, you might
want to do a refinance,
your house, that's a project.
That's not a task. You
know, Mark Hammond, right? You, you
introduced me to Mark Hamman.
Sure. He told me about
assist system and I'm sure
you're gonna remember it. And
you might even have it
on your list here, but
a system of organization that
you can even do on
paper, which basically revolves around
being efficient in terms of
laying out your tasks that
you're going to do. For
example, if two of your
tasks for the day involve,
you know, the same shopping
center in the same area,
you want to lump those
two things together versus doing
the, you know, and do
them at the same time,
rather than one on Monday
and one on Wednesday. Right?
So getting things done has
this notion of context. So
you would write down all
of the different places in
your life. You know, at
home, you put like an
outside in front of them
at home, at work, getting
things done. Does this getting
things done? Is it one
technique? I mean, there's dozens
out there, but getting things
done recognizes that there are
vague projects. There are next
action items and there are
contexts. So when you next,
find yourself sitting in your
car, you would look at
your notebook and say, Oh,
at car has these six
things right now, the thing
of the tiddly Wiki that
we mentioned a couple of
shows ago that getting things
done, tiddly Wiki is a
client side, Wiki that has
all this information written out
for you with suggested places
and contexts. I've got ones
like at home, at work,
in my car shopping. So
if I come upon an
office Depot in my travels,
I might look at my
thing and say, Oh, I
need to buy ink. And
you spend, what about an
hour, a week planning? You
know, less than that, basically
every week, like on Sunday
nights is a good time
or a Friday evenings. But
personally I find Sunday nights,
you basically defrag your life.
You write down all the
things in your life that
are open projects. It might
be every, I mean, every
single thing that you have
open, anything that's causing any
kind of psychic weight in
your life. I need to
get the outside of the
house pressure washed, right? That's
a project. The very next
action might be, find the
number for the guy, right?
The next action, after that
would be call the guy.
Then the next action would
be, get permission from my
wife to pay the guy.
You know? So those are
all actions underneath the project.
But what happens is we
put these projects on a
list, get the house pressure
washed, and it sits there
and it goes forward and
forward. And then six months,
nine months goes by. But
with this next action idea,
you could say, I have
a context called at calls,
right? Like when I'm sitting
in front of a phone
at any point, I could
make this call so that
the task switching from project
to project can be very
painful. Right? Cause right. The
optimal number of threads in
any one is, is one.
Hmm. Right? The optimal number,
you know, one multitasks, they
just spend less time on
stuff. So I'm picking up
two things here. I'm picking
up the term life hacks
and I'm picking up, getting
things done are the two
absolutely related to each other
or is getting things done.
One methodology of a life
hack. Yeah. I would say
getting things done as an
organizational methodology or loss, you
know, Stephen Covey and the
seven habits of highly effective
people, getting things done is
one that recognizes that people
work on a great deal
of information at one time.
And that it doesn't actually
call out a difference between
life and work. Yeah. Life
is life. You have a
pile of stuff. There's not
this notion of a work
stuff and life stuff. There's
just projects that are going
on. Now. People who are
interested in getting things done
often find themselves getting stoked
about life hacks. And they
say, wow, this organized my
desk and my life and
my projects. And I got
so much more done. What
else could I do? Could
I read more effectively? Another
example of a life hack
that someone who does getting
things done might decide to
use would be the notion
of time maps, time map,
an example would be at
shrinker.com/fau. You might do these
for your kids, where you
have a list of, you
know, where they're going to
be at school at home
at soccer chores. A lot
of people don't really know
what they're doing with their
time. And some people will
ask me, well, how do
you find the time to
do blogging and watch TV
and hang out with your
kid and go to work.
And that I think anyone
Who's ever listened to this
podcast or read your blog,
ask those same questions. And
the way that you do
it is, you know what
you're doing at every hour
of every day. Not, and
again, this doesn't, you know,
it doesn't work for everybody,
but to know that you
have six hours free on
Saturday, but you know, if
you woke up two hours
earlier, you'd have eight hours.
Do you ever feel crushed?
Like you're under the weight
of some sort of psychic
cosmic, you know, Jack boot,
taskmaster, which is your brain.
Do you ever just want,
turn it off and say,
eh, time to time to
forget about all this right
now? I do that though.
And I think everyone should
do that. I do feel
like that. Sometimes when I
do that, I sync to
paper. I take everything in
my life. I find out
what's both urgent and important.
Now that's a Covey type
thing, right? The Covey quadrants
urgent important, neither urgent, nor
important, simply urgent and simply
important. Sometimes people find themselves
doing things that are urgent
and they get crushed. But
do you ever have a
beer first before you do
that? I mean, you know
what I'm saying? I have
a caffeine free diet Coke.
You know what I mean?
No, no. I get overwhelmed.
I figure out if I'm
working on things that are
really important versus things that
are artificially important, but this
is why we, this is
why we go to Africa
every year, you know, but
the whole Blackberry in Zimbabwe,
so you go and you
chill and you, you know,
I lose 15 pounds and
I relax and then I
come back and I'm ready
to do my thing. You
unplugged from the collective. Yeah.
We're going to Tanzania in
December. Awesome. And everyone should
unplug at some point, but
even the ability to be
able to do that, to
know that you're proud, you
don't just leave your projects
up in the air. Right.
You need to plan for
that kind of, that kind
of thing. You know, and
actually this is a little
a schizophrenia of me, but
speaking of maps, there's some
pretty cool stuff that I
found on like Google maps
and virtual earth and map
packs that were online. There's
a, there's a company called
fresh logic studios that has
taken, you know, Atlas, the
asp.net, Ajax, API, and Microsoft
virtual earth. And they've come
up with a, an API
for you to send GPS
data from any device and
they'll dynamically map it. So
like you have a funky
phone with the GPS or
whatever. Well, the thing is
The thing about the GPS
in my phone is that
it doesn't work as a
location device only for nine
11 calls. Right. Is there
any way to get ahold
of that programmatically? I don't
know. I don't see anything.
These guys, We've got a,
a mobile API for the
dotnet compact framework@shrinks.com slash FAQ.
You know, I know in
mobile five, 5.0, there is
stuff for the GPS, but
That's it then. So what
they've got is a way
for you to talk via
web services to their backend.
And, you know, if you,
or, you know, one of
your minions, the Franklin minions
had one of these phones,
you could see where they
were on a, on a
map dynamically with Ajax. Wow.
And they've got this whole
API and it's a, it's
an interesting, it's built entirely
on virtual earth, but you
know, the virtual earth API
and the virtual birth website
is, it's just not quite
as shiny as Google maps.
Yeah. But the, the, the
graphics they have, the, the,
the, the quality of their
photographs is really quite nice.
Hmm. So these guys have
built an entire alternative UI
on top of Google maps.
So there's a really great
picture of the space needle
and go to shrink, stir.com/f
a T. And that will
take you into their API.
They're, they're retrieving information virtual
earth, but they're going to
have like overlays of gas
prices. You can see a
map of where the cheapest
gas is, wifi locations. The
potential for map packs is
huge. And a lot of
the, the map hacking work
that's been going on has
been kind of hacky because
you guys have a very
nice API on top of
that. And it's definitely worth
checking out kind of Like
the dotnet rocks road trip
page. Yeah, exactly. You probably
work pretty hard on that
page to make that work.
I didn't, but dr. Neil
Rudin did in his guy
Complicated stuff to get that
real time updating these guys
are much, you know, simplifying
it where your device would
just make a call and
they would handle everything else
for you. Yeah. That was
great. Cool stuff. That's fresh
logic studios shrinks stringer.com/ .
Okay. Scott, before we go,
there's something else that we
were talking about, flowcharts for
GTD for getting things done,
Right? Getting things done has
a very interesting and fairly
simple flow chartable process on
how you would decide whether
or not to do an
action or to file something
away. There's also the notion
of a daily review and
a weekly review. That can
be a little confusing sometimes,
but there's some very nice
getting things done. diagrams@shrinks.com slash
F a w that kind
of give you an idea
of how one would go
through that kind of daily
flow and processing the things
in their personal inbox. So
what would you say in
closing to somebody who's thinking,
you know, I don't have
time to look into this
kind of stuff and, you
know, learn some new methodology
blahblahblah to organize my life.
I just don't have time
to do it. You know,
it's this It's like saying
to the person who deploys
their website by opening to
Explorer, windows, and dragging files
from here to there. I
just have no time to
write a batch file, but
you still have time to
drag those files from left
to, right. You know, if
you do something more than
once automated, we that's, that's
the mantra in the programming
world, in the computer world,
but somehow people in their
lives continue to make mistakes
over and over and over
again. I think mistakes are
important. Repeating mistakes, I don't
think is important. Yeah. So
I would say you all
kind of owe it to
yourself, whether it be this
technique or some other technique
to identify the aspects of
your life, that you're not
happy with, you know, you
don't want to smoke, you
don't want to, like, for
example, a there's candy at
the front desk at my
office. And, and I just
can't, you know, Right. You're
diabetic. You can't touch it,
But it's, Reese's pieces, man.
They're free, you know, I
mean, who turns down free
pie? It's just the, you
don't do it. So what
do I do? I use
the back entrance. Yeah. I
stopped going through the front
door. That's a simple thing,
but you just make it
a habit. Right. And then
if I don't go to
the front entrance, I'm not
going to eat the candy.
Yeah. That's just one example.
But if there's something in
your life, that's not working,
do something different. What's the
definition of insanity, right. Doing
something over and over and
expecting a different result. So
it is simply the, the
will to make the change.
That is important, I think.
And I think your point
is well taken about not
having time. It's precisely because
you don't have time to
waste that you want to
make your time, that you
do things with as efficient
as possible. And I, and
I do, I would just
start small. I think getting
things done as a way
to do it, you know,
pick a religion, whatever it
is and be excited about
it. Cool. Well, I'm going
to look into it myself
and I can't wait. Can't
wait to talk to you
next week, Scott. Thanks for
letting me share. Absolutely. Thanks
again. And we'll see you
next week on handsome. .